# React Native

Create a Bare React Native project: ``
- Install the expo-cli globally: `npm install -g expo-cli`
- Create an Expo project: `npx create-expo-app <the name of your app>` 

## Running a project on an iOS emulator

If you use Mac you will be able to run your project both for iOS and Android.
- In order to run your React project with iOS go and install Xcode on your computer Mac.
- Just after the installation, Xcode will launch. On the superior navigation bar of the editor go to `Xcode > Open Developer Tool > Simulator`. This will open the default device for the emulator.
- Open the folder that holds the React Native project with Visual Studio Code
- From the editor command line run `expo start --ios` . This will do 2 things:
	- Open your iOS emulator and start downloading all the required sourcefiles and libraries
	- Open a browser window

> If you want to change the emulator OS and or device, on the superior navigation bar of the editor go to `File > Open Simulator`

## Running a project on an Android emulator

If you use Windows you will be able to run your project only for Android.
- In order to run your React project with Android go and install Android Studio on your PC.
- Just after the installation, Android Studio will launch. On the lower section of the small window go to  `Configure > ADV Manager > Create virtual device` . From there choose a device with an operating system and run the emulator.
- Inside the emulator go to the Google Play Store and install **Expo Go**.
- Open the folder that holds the React Native project with Visual Studio Code
- From the editor command line run `expo start --android` . This will do 2 things:
	- Open your Android emulator and start downloading all the required sourcefiles and libraries
	- Open a browser window

## Running  a project on an iOS physical device

When running the development server both for Expo Go or a dev client you need to open the iOS camera app and scan the QR code generated by the CLI when running `expo --start`.

## Running a project on an Android physical device

When running the development server both for Expo Go or a dev client you need to open the Expo Go app and scan the QR code generated by the CLI when running `expo --start`.